One common sample-based path planning method,
is called the probabilistic roadmap or PRM for short.
PRM randomly samples the workspace,
building up a graph to represent the free space.
It does so without needing to construct the C space or discretize it.
All that PRM requires,
is a collision check function,
to test whether a randomly generated node lies in
the freespace or is in collision with an obstacle.
Let's add a few more random samples to this workspace,
and see how PRM works.
The process of building up a graph is called the learning phase.
Since that's what the PRM does by sampling
random configurations and adding them to the graph.
It does so by generating a new random configuration represented by a node in the graph,
and checking to see if it is in collision.
If it is not, like the node D C here,
then PRM will try to connect the node to its neighbors.
There are a few different ways of doing so.
PRM can look for any number of neighbors within a certain radius of
the node or it could look for the nodes K nearest neighbors.
Once the neighbors have been selected,
PRM will see if they can successfully create an edge to each of its neighbors.
As you see here, one edge is in collision with
an obstacle while the other three are safe to add.
This node has been added to the graph,
and now this process can be repeated for another randomly generated node.
The local planner must find a path between two nodes or return that,
such a path does not exist.
It must do so quickly,
since this step is repeated for every neighbor of every new node.
One easy way to accomplish this,
is to draw a straight line between the two nodes,
and then check if any part of it collides with an obstacle.
To do this, you can place a number of evenly spaced samples
on the line and see whether any one of them is in a collision.
You can work incrementally starting on one side of the edge and moving towards the other,
or you can take a binary approach,
checking the sample at the midpoint first.
In this case, that returns a collision right away.
But if you didn't, you could continue breaking the edge up into segments,
checking each midpoint sample for a collision.
If all of the samples which are no collision found,
then the edge can be added to the graph.
The process of adding new nodes and connecting them to the graph continues.
Eventually, a certain criteria is met,
such as a specific number of nodes or edges have been created,
or a particular amount of time has elapsed.
At this point, the learning phase is over.
Then, PRM enters the query phase.
Where it uses the resulting graph to find a path from start to goal.
First, it must connect each of these to the graph.
PRM does so by looking for the nodes closest to the start
and goal and using the local planner to try to build a connection.
If this process is successful,
then a search algorithm like A star search,
can be applied to find the path from start to goal.
The resulting path may not be optimal,
but it proves that moving from start to goal is feasible.